We know what the future holds, Bible prophecy clearly indicates that we are living in the last days.
We understand what events will lead to Amageddon and the arrival of God's new world.
However, we do not know the exact events that will experience personally.
For example, you might wonder, will I experience a natural disaster?
And if so, what kind of disaster?
How will persecution affect me?
Will I end up in prison as I get older?
Who will care for me?
Have you ever asked yourself similar questions?
Has this uncertainty made you anxious or fearful?
Such feelings can make it hard to think clearly.
But these feelings can go away when we realize that we are well prepared.
For example, do you remember the future drama from the 2023 Convention?
Commit your way to Jehovah?
It illustrated how following the organization's direction saved lives during times of political unrest.
But is there anything else we can do to be fully equipped for tomorrow?
Absolutely. In fact, we are preparing ourselves every day.
Let's review what we are already doing and why we really have no reason to be fearful or anxious.
The Apostle Peter wrote his letters during times of trials and instability.
The brothers and sisters of the first century knew they were living in the last days of the Jewish system of things.
Based on Jesus' warning, they expected personal challenges.
However, they did not know exactly when and how these events would affect them.
It was impossible for them to plan for every possibility.
Peter, who was getting older, may have wondered how he and other elderly ones would be cared for later in life.
He may have perceived that aging and declining health could create uncertainty and fear in some.
Doesn't that sound a lot like the situation we were in today?
What did the Apostle Peter recommend in view of future uncertainties?
At 1 Peter 1 verse 13, he said,
So brace up your minds for activity.
Keep your senses completely.
Set your hope on the undeserved kindness that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
So did Peter tell the brothers and sisters to stockpile money or supplies? No.
He encouraged them to strengthen their faith and trust in Jehovah.
There are no uncertainties for Jehovah.
He had promised to protect the Christians in the first century, and he would provide salvation.
In verse 13, what are the three things Peter encouraged Christians to do?
One, brace up your minds for activity.
Two, keep your senses completely.
And three, set your hope on the undeserved kindness.
Let's look at each point and see what helps us to be fully equipped for tomorrow.
First, Peter tells us to brace up our minds for activity.
Brace up means to be ready for activity. What kind of activity?
Among other forms of activity, notice what Peter wrote a little later in his letter at 1 Peter 2 verse 9.
You should declare abroad the excellencies of the one who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light.
In the first century, Christians were active in telling others the good news about Jesus Christ.
We do the same today.
We are active in the ministry, sharing the good news that Jesus is king in heaven, and we speak about the hope for all.
Now, how does this sharing in this activity prepare us for the uncertainties of tomorrow?
Talking to others about our hope for the future, strengthens our own conviction and faith.
This ministry keeps us focused, and we see the positive changes in those we teach.
Sharing in this activity depends our gratitude for being part of Jehovah's family.
Has this gratitude motivated you to be active in the ministry?
Maybe your circumstances even allow you to share in full-time service.
By being active, you showed Jehovah that his kingdom is the most important thing in your life.
And Jehovah promises to care for those who put his kingdom first.
You are in his protective hands. There is no need to be anxious or fearful.
Therefore, being active in the ministry is the first step towards being prepared for tomorrow.
Next, the Apostle Peter tells us to keep our senses completely.
This means being balanced in our thinking.
Thus, we are able to evaluate matters properly, come to the right conclusions, and make good decisions.
Isn't this what we want?
How can we make good decisions, especially when we face unexpected events in our life?
Developing Christian qualities helps us keep our senses.
For instance, Peter mentions one important quality at 2 Peter 2 verse 9.
So then, Jehovah knows how to rescue people of godly devotion out of trial.
So what quality can help us to keep our senses completely and make good decisions?
It's godly devotion.
This means being loyal to Jehovah and doing what he asks.
Is this not what we promised to do when we dedicated our lives to him and got baptized?
Yes.
And since then, we have made many decisions to follow his directions which often come through his organization.
Some changes were easy. Others were hard, especially when we did not fully understand the direction or agree with it.
Can you think of a time when you made a difficult change for Jehovah?
Did you later see how following his direction led to good results?
Your love for Jehovah and your deep devotion to him helped you to make wise decisions.
What's the point?
Doing what Jehovah asked us today not only brings good results now, but also prepares us for tomorrow.
It ensures that when we are faced with a critical situation, we will naturally follow Jehovah's directions.
Isn't this the best way to prepare for the future?
For example, you may remember Sister Margaret Weirich who had to flee from wildfires.
She learned from Jehovah's organization how important it is to obey those directing traffic.
Although she wanted to drive a different way, she followed directions and was safe.
Her godly devotion was evident. It's what prepared her for the future and ultimately saved her life.
So, Peter said we must keep our senses.
How? By cultivating qualities like godly devotion, this allows us to make good decisions and experience Jehovah's care.
What was the third point that Peter mentioned at 1 Peter 1 verse 13?
He tells us to set our hope on the undeserved kindness.
What was Peter trying to say?
How can these two elements, hope and undeserved kindness help us to prepare for tomorrow?
First, we have reminded of the stabilizing effect that hope can have on us.
It is compared to an anchor that keeps a ship secure during a storm.
When we become anxious about what we might have to endure tomorrow, persecution, disaster or health issues,
don't we feel like we are in a storm?
Without hope, we might easily lose our balance.
Peter encourages us here to see beyond the uncertainties and focus on what is certain, solid and secure.
Our hope, our view of future blessings stabilizes us.
Did you notice that Peter made a connection between hope and undeserved kindness?
The hope that we have is a gift from Jehovah, and Jesus' resurrection is the basis for our hope.
The more we reflect on this, the stronger our gratitude and hope become.
This grateful attitude influences our daily life.
Also, for example, notice the mindset Peter mentioned at 1 Peter 2, verse 11.
Beloved, I urge you as foreigners and temporary residents to keep abstaining from fleshly desires which rage war against you.
Our daily choices show that we do not belong to this world or seek its protection.
We are residents of God's kingdom.
Peter reminds us to be different.
For instance, we are different because of our view of material things.
Materialism, a fleshly desire has affected people around us, and many would sacrifice everything for material things.
For example, many people are overly concerned about their financial future.
While it's the course of wisdom to do some planning, excessive worry about material needs later in life may cause some to put undue pressure on children and other family members to pursue a secular career.
This is common in some cultures, and it can affect us if we are not careful.
We might feel pressured to imitate others, and this could even affect our friendship with Jehovah or what others in our family can do for him.
In the following interview, notice how parents living in such a culture chose to prepare for the future.
Hong Kong is an international city, and it is known for having high property prices.
I was a teacher, and as a teacher, I advise my students to study hard and choose the majors that can help them find a job with a higher income and a stable future.
Before I learned the truth, I also hope that our children could have a better future by getting a good job when they grew up.
That way, they could also support us financially.
Being Christian parents in the truth, we didn't want them to neglect their studies in school, but we also wanted them to know about the Bible.
Therefore, we started studying the Bible with them and took them to meetings and helped them to preach to others.
Since they were young, I emphasized the blessings from God and that we should always give things to him.
So when one of my sons told me, Dad, I want a pioneer. I was thrilled, and I said, You should do it.
But when I heard that he wanted to pioneer and work part-time, I worried about how that would affect our income.
However, we never had a problem.
I really saw how Jehovah blessed us.
The amount of money that we earned was more than enough, and I felt cared for and provided for by Jehovah.
When my eldest son told me that he wanted to stop his current studies and start learning a construction trade, I was disappointed.
I thought that even students who didn't do well could do that job, and that type of work would be physically harder for him.
But he explained to us that being a construction worker would be useful now and forever in the New World.
I eventually respected his decision.
We taught our children to put Jehovah first, but when it came to putting it into practice, I needed to respect the decision made by my son.
In order to make it possible for our whole family to pioneer, we needed to simplify our lives.
During family worship, we discussed ways to reduce expenses so that everyone in the family was on the same page.
I noticed that we did not lack anything, and that the whole family could all share the burden of our expenses.
Our children are now all grown up, and they willingly serve Jehovah.
I am so grateful to Jehovah because they have come to love him with their whole hearts.
We are all so happy.
I am thankful to Jehovah every time I see the smiling faces of my family.
I have clearly felt that Jehovah always takes care of his servants.
Like it says, at Matthew 6.33, if we keep seeking first God's kingdom and His righteousness, Jehovah will take care of us.
And if our prayers are according to God's will and we try our best, He will undoubtedly bless our efforts.
Therefore, I have strong faith and hope for our future ahead.
Being different can be challenging, but wasn't it encouraging to see how this couple resisted cultural expectations and pressure?
Instead, they agreed with their children's desire to pursue goals in Jehovah's service, and they supported them.
Strengthening our friendship with Jehovah is the best preparation for tomorrow.
And whether Jehovah ultimately uses children to care for their parents or provides help in another way,
Jehovah will stick to his promise to care for us.
To be fully equipped for tomorrow, we set our hope with gratitude on our God, the God we trust.
In this discussion, did you find that you are already doing these things? Likely so.
Therefore, we do not have any reason to be overly anxious or fearful about future trials or other uncertainties.
We face the future with confidence, because we are fully equipped for tomorrow.